Java is an 
open source, 
high level,
object oriented

programming language introduced by Sun Microsystems in May 1995 and Designed by James Gosling.

An object oriented programming language consists of these 6 features:

1.)Class
2.)Object
3.)Inheritance
4.)Encapsulation
5.)Abstraction
6.)Polymorphism

1.)Class: A class is like a blueprint for an object.
A Class is a user-defined data-type which consists of states and behaviors.

2.)Object: Object represents any real world entity.

3.)Inheritance: It is the mechanism in java which enables one class(Child Class) to reuse the features of another class(Parent Class).
In java, a class inherits the features of another class using 'extends' keyword.
It supports the reusability of code and saves a lot of efforts of developer.


4.)Encapsulation: Encapsulation basically means Data Binding.
It is defined as the wrapping up of data into a single unit.
Encapsulation says every member i.e. states & behaviors must exist within a class.


5.)Abstraction: Abstraction basically means Data Hiding.
Data Abstraction is one of the key features of OOP language in which unnecessary 
informations are hidden from the user and only the required information visible to the user.


6.)Polymorphism: Polymorphism means differentiating between entities with the same name efficiently
 with the help of signature and declaration of these entities.
There are 2 types of polymorphism in Java :-

->Overloading - Overloading allows us to have number of methods having same name,
 but different signatures where number off arguments, type of arguments or both are different.
 It is also known as compile time polymorphism.It can take place within a class or among various classes.

->Overriding - Method overriding is used to provide the specific implementation 
of a method in a class which is already provided by its superclass.
It is also known as run time polymorphism.It can only take place in the case of inheritance 
i.e. no. of classes must be more than one.